yeah looks like mine
no you okay welcome everyone to this
week's IPL demeaning
it's April the 20th in 2020 and as every
week we go over the stuff that we've
done in the past week and planned to do
and yeah so I start first with the thing
about that this meeting God now one our
expansion slot but the plan is still to
keep it short it's just a matter of
having em if we run over having one hour
slot so that no other meetings kaleidos
this one yeah and then in for the
updates I yeah I don't have done that
much didn't get much done last week and
also not much I thought you really did
it work mostly I've done some JSI filled
the maintenance work so the roof is open
dependency updates from Naga fest folks
and it those I spend a bit of thought
about I pretty we're gonna put it in
here about binary binary based keys in
maps in the IP old data model and I've
even ripped it down and I still need to
type out but expect something like this
week about my thoughts because I've
talked with rod about it and also with
Eric about it and I'm yeah finally so it
will be like an explorer very pod giving
a little context explaining things and
so the short version of and so my
conclusion kind of is that it should be
possible to store fine to make hands
with binary keys but from an IP API
perspective it should be strings to the
outside but what it has will be in the
explore patiently called and yeah we can
discuss the details via um that's all I
have yeah I'm a question about that so
like in in the other libraries we're
talking about HAMP's the moment that
you're doing a lookup in a hand that
doesn't look like a lookup on a normal
map a lot of the time like it like
that's how it looks in JavaScript
because it literally moves from like a
sync operation to an async operation for
one thing so there isn't really like a
restriction it at all on what the key
type needs to be like it can be binary
we don't really care there and in a
model because the model doesn't have a
in opinion about multi-block collections
so I'm just sort of curious like why you
why like your API form has to translate
into a string M yes so the reason is
that media is I think should be that and
for advanced data they also like hymns
that they still work like I call the
data model kinds and because if they
don't you can't use them with slack bus
for example because so if you want to
use your hand with a selector it needs
it the same interface as normal I mean
there's lots of mysteries and so on well
I mean the selector is still gonna have
to understand how to traverse a Hampton
anyway to do a key lookup in it no no it
doesn't know it doesn't that's the whole
point like the whole point is to be the
whole point about advanced data layers
is they behave like normal so the sixth
root should behave like a normal map
basically I mean that's a ideal like if
the way this is set up already in the
code base we're looking forward to being
able to go if you deploy a selector and
it just sees the thing as a map it turns
out to be implemented by hand because
the hint will also be using
same loader callbacks as the rest of the
traversal process would already be using
even extremely higher-level things that
have no clue about this like graph sync
as long as the hemp protein so far
because even something way away like
grab Sanka will just magically get it it
will know all the blocks that are being
traversed right there so I'd hate to
always be this guy but you still have
the signalling problem like how do you
know to interpret that block at the
route block of a hampt rather than as
yeah so if you have to single it then
you you're basically saying oh hey this
is actually a hint do some kind of other
traversal and then you have to have
other code that goes oh this is a hampt
I'm going to do something else so it is
it is functionally different you're
still gonna have to say in the selector
like yeah dude just look up and a half
it may still be do a key based lookup
and a half so it would look like doing
it collector lookup you're gonna have to
say like it's not just a map it's my hat
so we already have this all over the
place and go this so from my perspective
at least this is like it's true that you
need to solve the signaling problem but
I just already have that problem and
already had to solve it so that doesn't
say something the same way like we
already have to probably go you have to
decide what you're in memory
representations but that's what the
whole like no style and stuff is about I
mean you still have like huge
differentiations that you need to make
in the selector engine though because
you can't assume that you're only ever
going to get at most one block or node
out of a key selection on a regular map
but on a hampt it could be multiple
blocks and pads in order to get there
like we've been down this road before
like we have to solve that like that's
just fine because the entire weight
graph syncs concept at this there's a
reason why all this stuff is implemented
right
right so the link loader layer knows
that it was actually traversing through
the blocks and can surfaces correctly
right anyway okay this does sort of
answer my question though I'm like why
you need why you can just representation
in order to look them look them up but I
do sense it like if people are using
binary keys they probably want API forms
that accept binary cubes so if they're
using a Hampton order to do binary keys
specifically like they're probably not
going to appreciate an API that makes
them do string conversions all over the
place that's not actually gonna be fun
for them they might do that in order to
get a selector at some point but most of
the time I think that they're just going
to want to pass them in binary should
they should at least be able to do that
if the underlying implementation is
amusing and binary yeah but if the point
is that if you so if you want to use the
ruling like selectors for example if you
were to be able to use the like this you
need to basically comply to the ID from
the data model and if you do something
outside of it you of course free to do
so but then you don't have like they're
all like hopefully if you CH are even
more tuning around it but you of course
free to do it and it just won't be as
smooth as if you would use the data more
okay oh just for reference by the way um
PowerPoint is doing HAMP's with binary
keys like all over the place so just
keep it on your radar they're making
heavy heavy use of that okay the big
data project for file coin is pretty
much done across this table of data we
actually process too much data and we
were gonna have like a two hundred
thousand dollar s3 bill every month so
we we deleted a bunch of data and we
will reprocess it closer to when we need
it so then we're not paying to the story
cuz lambda is so cheap that it costs us
less to generate the data that's a story
so that that's but that's like on the
back burner now so I'm freed up for
other stuff got a bunch of DAG to be
stuff done I've got an update or
instructor now it's basically like an
API for doing what we've traditionally
called the naming problem like you have
a mutable name for something and you
need to swap out the reference this is
just like an API layer for you to be
able to plug this in so I've been
working on the HTTP one recently there's
also an LRU everywhere question to rod
in a minute do you have a library that's
good and consistent for doing Global's
across the browser and a node that are
guaranteed to be global even with all of
the the version mismatching and
everything I the one I used to use was
global single something it's like it's
gonna be a hack because you're not
supposed to but I actually don't know it
so it would be glue crystal brother
anyway Oh fun the link to it gives you
for obvious reasons there you want to
cache it's called global and browser as
well rayna's global okay I'll check that
out Thanks yeah now I'm working on the
remote side of it so similar to like get
remotes so you you add in remotes and
then you push and pull from them that's
the piece that I'm working on there and
other than like some hiring stuff and
some other sort of team stuff that's if
anybody can see the text document list
Cochin is now way further along
it's still nowhere near close to done
because the scope of the thing is just
enormous but
a lot of stuff has happened string types
are now generated correctly integer
types are not generated correctly these
are just like simple scalar leaf nodes
so those are pretty simple but
development just done it can be used in
tests now structs with maths as a
representation so they're natural
representation work that includes if
they've got knowable fields that
includes effect optional fields it
includes whether the maybes for each of
the types are implemented as pointers or
as embedded Struck's this is something
that i have now made into a parameter
that you could control through some
adjunct config so it's not part of this
game a declaration because it's
something that matters about the go
koujun doesn't matter about the
semantics just internals but that's a
thing like a configure now by the way
there's an adjunct config configuration
system piped through all of the
templating all the culture now so that
stuff is consistent not fully wired up
is like feel renames for a distinction
between like what you said that schema
in logical sense to be current but it's
like a 90% there you need a coat of
paint over it's actually exported but
all the cuts are there and the rename
directions from the schema we're putting
first structure presentation that's nice
and I'm like just getting started this
is such a ridiculous longer list but I'm
also so excited I'm going to drag
everyone through it with some apologies
but like it's not safe
structs with string joint
representations now also work which is
really kind of consequential because
this is a working proof of the same type
loads and a struck with different
functioning representation strategies so
we can take a struck and we can do
string join or we can do map
representation and all the cogent
symbols for this work and yeah it's just
really exciting and all of these things
also compose recursive lists even add a
struct that embeds a struct with a map
representation that has a fields and
another struct string representation can
even have other strokes in it that are
more
string representations they can
decompose or personal Maps work
including what's inaudible values
including whichever way you choose the
maybes to be implemented all that works
recursively so that's that's a lot of
things all of this has a test system now
that I'm actually reasonably happy with
which is a huge advancement from
previously for the longest time I was
doing a bunch of this developments like
were quick and dirty so there would be
all of the coding in stock and when you
ran tests on that package he would spit
out a bunch of files of the generated
code and then I would switch my editor
context to that package and I request
tests over there and this was my flow so
like see I was not doing this correctly
at all the reporting cycles were split
in half and it's just like really not
okay with it oh so now that's fixed the
new system tests the code generation
itself working it tests that the
generated code compiles at the same time
and it has mechanisms for running
functional tests against the newly
compiled generated code and all this
runs from other than a regular road test
commands went totally normal formatting
to spend in fact I was saying totally
normal
this wasn't insanely hard it was what I
ended up doing was something using the
go plug-in build system and then loading
that plug-in dynamically into the same
process again so this is a little
fragile it doesn't work on Windows by
the way so if you try to develop this
from Windows I'm so sorry you will have
to drag yourself through the CIA remote
process athletics is there a path to for
it to work one day or this is just like
enough probably but it's did you have
like a multi-step go generate
alternative so like
I should clarify this is like if I'm
talking too fast this is all for the
tests so like every look you can use
this without this it's just by far the
nicest way to get tests I did also spend
a whole bunch of time trying to do this
was like a go test on one package doing
generation go test as a subprocess and
that was worse
neither of these solutions really makes
me super thrilled and Tatian details but
managing all of the output correctly for
the recursive indications go test as a
sub process was not even funny I'm just
gonna like as if my lips before I say
anything more about that because truly
some problems are at least funny this
one was not moving up so there is
another package that's also doing cogent
that's not using this explanation this
plugging stuff so that one still kind of
has a two step manual process but that
one has a different purpose this package
is testing the same benchmarks as the
basic stuff does so the hand rolls know
type info like generic or reusable basic
note and cogent that represents some of
the same topological structures bezel
maps and structs using the same
benchmarks that is kind of exciting
come on its own and also it says what I
wanted it to say Cochin is faster
sometimes a lot faster I want to write
more benchmarks to say how much but in
like even really small datasets 25%
faster I'm pretty sure some of these
things are also like all of em versus
all of one scale so like bigger
structures way faster but I don't have
enough benchmarks to say that really
yeah
pretty sure that's what we're missing so
yeah that's cool there is still a ton of
work to do on Co gen so like lists are
done they should be easy I just haven't
done yet unions aren't done and those
are probably going to take a while
because with there like five different
flavors of them there's a whole bunch of
code coming there and it might have some
challenges and especially private unions
because they're just very different
there are a bunch of other random
representations and structs that aren't
done yet but they should all be doable
because we've already got the two major
differences approved out so we know it
could be done
error handling is gonna take a lot of
polishing and I've just been flying
through this without too much effort on
Mac brain stack depth limit so typ
literal generation is also not included
which I'm skipping over for now because
nothing is like directly depending right
so like some areas would love to have it
because we're making them clearer and
some other like meta reflection would
love to have this but those are in my
Minimum Viable feature set right now so
and then the one biggest caveat is if
you want to use this none of this is
wired up to be invoked from the scanner
document yeah it's still driven by code
so you have to like and use these dirty
temporary building functions and someday
we'll get over that but not today so
that's exciting
and at this point I would love to beg
somebody to do a benefit skin around
this huge PR diff with me and sanity
check some stuff I don't know if I would
actually seriously ask me one to read
the entire dish line by line because it
is rapidly getting kind of huge but
there are at least some comments that
would be worth skimming I'm starting to
discover something really interesting
interplays in details of things like
some of the rules around how you want
maps to behave if you've got
interesting things going on in the keys
might be relevant to that other
discussion we were having earlier it
turns out that there are some situations
where like I really want to coerce this
one kind of arguments in order to make
sure that path segments the thing let's
ease by selectors can actually submit to
applicable is just lots of stuff like
really nice to have another set of
brains looking at this and making sure
all checks out and just like somebody's
aware of the potential ramifications so
yeah and that's a branch I tend not to
push Peters cui until way too late
maybe I should yeah the odds are as you
put discussion of cuz you you probably
got a lot of like synchronously with me
a little bit cuz it's really big and I
have not written coherent reviews of it
it's like I mean it's draft would even
be pushing it
there's a massive amounts of
implementation that has sewn back but
the patent is definitely in my head and
on a document so it's gonna be rough to
read alone but hopefully that'll change
the book has got time to to help and
focus heads probably a good place at the
moment having with going through the
rough stuff and also croaking the whole
string cheese thing so I'll have a look
but um money
my progress on the last PR I didn't get
all the way through before it that much
that I went holding the video I
appreciate your thoroughness with which
she do tragedy King zone yeah yeah so
that she'd better wrap it up for me
who excuse my yawning that's far too
early and not fully awake yet so there's
two main things that I've been breaking
up one is this farm Queen multi-code egg
stuff and that's been getting our in the
modern formats / multi coding repo stud
from will request 161 and then issue one
six eight comes the same thing proposal
is the farming team want to be able to
identify these commitment hashes as in
CID form and that's what they need some
multi codec entries for it but the
problem is that there's a lot of things
that are unclear about it that I spent
last week trying to get some clarity
there's still one of the be unclear
things is why but she went hitting a
brick wall there and there's an
insistence that this is this is
important but basically you you get
there's these three commitment hashes
that you get from various processes in
file coin its commitment a piece
commitment data commitment I think it's
called four sectors and a replication
commitment the most the one I know best
is the piece commitment because I can I
can generate them and that's basically a
complex padding and Merkel ization
process that gives you a single hash
from the input data that you are sending
to file the file will never work and
you're getting commitment on four it's
basically the ID of the thing that gets
stored and you can use this to do trades
and to do to do deals
but then disease other ones as well so
the problem with these things is they're
not just headed snot just a hatch it's
not like he's my dog run the hatch
program and hash function and give you
back a hash comment so you can't just
use our standard paradigm to say this
thing represents some underlying data
but you can say that this this hash
value represents the tip of a Merkle
tree and so one way to fit this into
multi formats is to get to multi codec
is to just limited to that and say these
these are just at the top of a local
tree for compy and comdey that's a
binary miracle tree so you can say this
this is at least this value corresponds
to a block who has two more values that
you can follow in the same way to two
more values to two more values until you
get to nodes that point to something
other than this type of thing with the
sealed data you get a novel Merkle tree
so you have such as the binary local
tree it uses more complex algorithm to
get there but it still a local tree so
you could do a similar thing ways this
node points to a list of other nodes
that you could follow in an ordered way
to get to the base data so those I
pulled apart the original for quest 161
and there's au because multi codec
proposals for each for 3 in forest 172
that's that identifies these things as
this type of thing but then there's two
more multi hashing trees and what the
Porticus once at me and 171 progress 170
is for a char to 256 variant that
replaces the last two bits with zeros
uh-huh besides and it's a novel sha-256
and there's a precedent for that because
we have a double shower two to six in
there already two-bit going so it's not
a huge stretch to do this it's just you
know were opening the door to having
more of these wacky variants so there's
some sketching about the name of that
because it's because it's currently
called trunk to and the trunk it may not
be the right word so all the two might
not be the right signify there's a
little bit of discussion there but I
think we might be arriving in something
and then they pluralist 171 is adding a
new hash function Poseidon which they
use for the sealed data the Sidon is
interesting because it's it's a new hash
function but it's also heavily
parameterize a wall so you there's you
can't just say I'm using Poseidon 256
you know you'd have to say I'm using
Poseidon with this curve and this this
arity and and then a bunch of other
minor premiers and so I pulled out those
two main things curve and tree energy in
into the name of this married and then
added a five point variant on the end of
it for the additional parameters so if
somebody else was using Poseidon they
could shop and they could have and have
another entry and they could list their
curve they could list their tree arity
and then they could have their own
variant of the additional parameters as
well so far more you can iterate on this
if they check if I ever change their
parameters if this hash function they're
using they can iterate and then if
anyone else adds one then it's scalable
so that you can see the main bits but
also they have space to vary those
additional parameters and then on top of
that when you generate these additional
parameters in a file coin and in a
Poseidon instance you can do it in a way
where you end up with additional
circuits through the
hash function that provides with a
higher security version so so when they
get there they're the initial hash
function they will also get a second one
that they can use if they want to and
that's useful if if there are security
flaws found in the the basic one they
can say well let's just switch to the
high security version and it's more
costly but it it's available for them so
there's a second one in there that
accounts for the fact that they have
this thing to use although they may not
use it so anyway it's kind of complex
but there's discussion in those things
and there's there is no it's been
oppression to get this resolved and and
that there is a bit of a you know round
peg into a square hole kind of thing
going on in some of this stuff but I I
think I think it makes sense I think it
makes it I think it feels it's just
scratching multi-coat like you know what
in ways that I don't think it was
originally thought of that it would be
stretched maybe I don't know I mean one
seems to be adamant that this is this is
the way multi-protocol should be able to
work and if it doesn't work this way
then multi codecs it's not is not
scalable in general so is that I would
like some more engagement then I got
Falco engaging but if you know what has
me opinions on that that would be really
helpful
so anyway moving on the other thing I've
been doing is this Bitcoin thing how do
i PLD is Bitcoin and we have libraries
in JavaScript ago but they're not
complete I mean in different degrees and
they don't fully account for all of the
bikes in the Bitcoin block so the go
library can decompose and be kind of
logging to the series of IPL deed blocks
with C IDs but you don't account for all
the blocks and you end up losing some
data when doing their process
and this is all thanks to the secret
change that they made in she doesn't
have for all it was
and basically you the the standard
header plus Merkle tree two transactions
doesn't work for now about half of the
transactions actually don't know how
many transactions are sacred
transactions but if you follow that you
miss out on on all of the witness data
so whenever somebody makes transaction
and they want to record witness data in
there so you know the blockchain is used
for storing all sorts of other things
other than financial transactions all
that stuff now hangs off to the side and
to get there you have to follow the
second Merkle tree but then you arrive
at transactions that are essentially
duplicates of original ones with some
additional bytes in them I'm going to
share my screen on my second computer
that's connected into here and and I'm
gonna run you through this thing that I
have been working on because I putting a
lot of brainpower in and figuring out
how this can work you're going to sit
through it with me so but I do I do want
some feedback on this process because
this has implications for the way we
think about IP LD and other content
content addressed data in coins so if
you want to think of Bitcoin as content
address then you have to you have to
squeeze it into our paradigm or you have
to stretch our paradigm to make it work
better for something like beer trying so
so a Bitcoin block is primarily
identified by its header and the block
IDs that you see for Bitcoin blocks and
you can look there's all sorts of
websites where you can look up a block
by its ID you know starting with a
string of zeros
there that's the block ID but it's a
it's a it's a double shower - if you fix
hash of the 80 bite hitter that's all it
is
and the block is a lot longer than the
header and the way that that works is
the header contains this TX mobile root
in which is a the tip of a Merkel tree a
binary local tree that will get you to
the transactions that also contained
within the block the momentary bit wonky
it's got a because to account for uneven
for odd numbered levels they do a
duplication of of hashes which has led
to a security flaw but but you can
decompose that TX Merkel root into nodes
of the Merkel tree so what you do is you
say each need to note of that Merkel
tree is an IP LD block itself which had
leads to two more until you get down to
this thing actually points to real
transactions so that can work but then
the problem is that these this Merkel
tree for my mouse is working ok so the
Merkel tree for the transactions if you
look at the classic transaction down
here the TX ID is the hatch of the of
the transaction that's great we've now
encapsulated that whole block and so a
transaction can be an ideally block and
it's ID is its hash and we can use that
we can translate because transaction ID
is another thing that the Bitcoin
community is used to be passing around
because you could look transactions up
by their IDs great
but then segment came along which said
we've got a problem with this witness
dial that's being attached into
transactions and it's causing some
security problems we need to segregate
it from the rest of the block dog so if
you look down at these sacred
transactions they still give at exid the
transaction ID down the bottom here but
it's a hash of only portions of the
transaction actually you have to remove
two main sections of in the middle of
the transaction data to get the hash
that gives you the transaction ID so if
we were to do this in I appeal D terms
and you've got the TX ID being your CID
it doesn't give you the full block it
gives you this partial block so the
witness data is removed from that thing
there is a TX hash then they do take it
to have hash of the whole lot but then
this is stored elsewhere so what happens
is that you
once you've once you've navigated to all
these TX IDs and you've got these
transactions that are not real transact
they're not the full transactions in
many cases they don't have the witness
data you can go to the first one which
is the coinbase transaction and that's
the transaction that where the miner
gives the reward and in that one you can
find out the this witness commitment and
a that we the witness commitment is this
is a a hash of a not quite a merkin tree
node but it's a hash of the Merkle tree
node plus a nonce and the nonce is
important you need to use that to
reconstruct the proper coinbase
transaction but then the maple tree know
that it appeared with will give you a
local tree that actually uses the the
proper hashes of the transactions and so
you can reconstruct the first
transaction using that nonce and with
this commitment and then you can
reconstruct all the rest of the
transactions by following their local
tree down and then you put their proper
hashes so if you follow all that you'll
see one of the problems here is that we
can reconstruct a Bitcoin block into
this doubly memorized instruction and so
say there's a hundred transactions in a
block you've got a hundred basic
transactions then all of the local nodes
that lead up to the local route but then
you've got to build another second
Merkle tree
that leads down to the same transactions
again we're about half of them are
different and I've got these witness
data in them so the main issue with that
well outside from the complexity the
main issue with that is the fact that
there's duplicate data so in every in
every segment transaction you will have
its classic form and also its sacred
form in this mocha lies in this in this
IPL deified version of a Bitcoin block
so I don't know what I don't know what
any of the numbers are for this but they
say the the blockchain is currently it
was it's whatever size the blockchain is
right now if we were to turn into IPL
e-content
we could be multiplying its size by it's
a 1.5 times maybe to just to get to our
classic ideally form but it can work but
you can see where this is stretching our
concept of it the the other thing we
could do that has come up in this far
point multi codec discussion is say
something like a merkel process is also
a hash and so actually add an entry into
the multi hatch for Bitcoin merkel and
then then you could say that your CID is
involves the TX merkel root and that
resolves to a list of transactions and
and just leave it at that
and then and then you just say well that
Merkel process has some really crazy
features to it that lets you resolve a
segue data that's a possibility and then
we you could actually use that process
that same argument for the Farpoint
thing but then you end up with entries
for all sorts of non-local process
in in the multi hash table and you and
you and you stretch the concept of multi
hash beyond what it was originally
written up to be anyway I hope you
enjoyed this presentation are there any
questions so many I'm not sure I
entirely followed why they want to embed
some of the segregated witness
information in this sequential range of
bytes but then not hash it that's just
interesting yes that doesn't necessarily
matter we just have to kind of deal with
it at this point but so there's you can
read about in in big barcode the Bitcoin
in Boonton press proposal one for one
that's my sacred came from and yeah and
look I just kind of quickly read the
abstract this bit defines a new
structure called witness that is
committed to blocks separately from the
transaction local trees the structure
contains divert it might check
transaction validity but not required to
determine the transaction effects in
particular the script signatures are
moved into this new structure the
witness is committed to the tree that is
nested into the blocks existing merkel
route via the coinbase transaction for
the purpose of making this bit a soft
for this bit soft for comparable a
future hard hard fork and places this
tree in zone branch there's something
and I don't quite understand it but
there's something about the fact that
this witness data can be used by miners
to manipulate the they're hashing
process because it the witness Tanner is
like an addendum to actual transactions
so it's got essentially nothing to do
with the financial aspect of the
transactions and they want to make sure
that when they're when miners are
hashing these transactions that they are
not that they are using they are varying
the right parts of the block to get to
their
winning hatch rather than getting into
witness that are missing with that be
putting crazy faces email I think that's
the main thing behind so you also have
something to do with ten the minor
choose to include this or not later
after they find a hash so they're there
hashing without including or considering
this witness data and then putting that
in as the block actually gets created
afterwards and they shouldn't that
shouldn't then matter and let them
change anything what do you know it's
one of these things where I I've decided
not to understand too deeply it's just
accept the fact that this crazy thing
exists yeah it raises the question
though yes this thing exists but is it
in a way part of the blockchain it isn't
isn't well then didn't you say that the
there is an idea that includes all of
that data the hash functions back into
there so it's segregated but it's not
fully separate it's segregated from the
transactions but it's still included in
the blockage so in through its own
miracle process so it's not entirely
separate from like varying this stuff
will vary the hash of the block so I
guess the reason like one of the reasons
they did it this way is so that they can
reuse the storage mechanism of the
blockchain to basically store this
somewhere but at the same time not you
have to change what TX IDs are like and
stuff like that so that probably answers
Eric's question but my question is then
if we represent the blockchain without
the segment data is this a functional
block chain or not if we deal I think
we'd lose a lot of information that
people are using witness data for it's
you know people say well I you know I
verified this base
luring it on the blockchain you know
people do things like that they can
understand they can record history by
saying look I I picked this into the
Bitcoin blockchain at some point and you
could look it up verify that it's there
that all that would be gone and that
that data is actually would be
interesting from a I feel the process so
let me take a stab at summarizing this
I'm not sure if this is correct I'm
still trying to process but it seems
like what we're looking at is they have
what we might try to map into two
different concepts of block but they've
actually got one physically inside the
other so that's kind of giving us head
spins because that's just not how we
would normally think about it and
whereas we try to define a lot of IP LD
for the purpose of any new designs as
links being this thing you put in the
middle of your data structure topology
but you don't lean on them super
directly from any application purposes
this Bitcoin stuff we want to care about
the links very directly because that's
what people are used to caring about in
those applications writing and so we're
in this weird rock and a hard place
where we want these links but they just
don't map on to discrete blocks in the
same way because it's this weird
blocking of Lachman is that the summary
that yeah that's better that's not
necessarily a hard constraint that's up
for discussion but my one of my
assumptions coming into this is that
somebody should should be able to show
up to let's say we put the same we see
like the ipfs network with these blocks
somebody should be able to take a big
coin let's say a transaction ID they
should be going to take that hash
reverse it because that's presented in
big endian so we reverse it to a little
endian stick bytes in front to make it a
CID and you should be out a query the
network can get that transaction the
same with a block ID so that's mine
that's my working sort of basis from
thinking about this that's not it
doesn't necessarily have to be that way
it's just that well how do you get to
these blocks if you
you're gonna have to link to them using
our hashes and they gonna be we add
hashes compared to what onesies do I
mean like like in the Bitcoin blockchain
their internal storage mechanism can
just keep this block with two separate
keys one that is validates an entire
block and one that isn't part of it
right like and then they can they can
use that as a map to get okay we can't
really do that because we have like a
much more generalized store and and in
some cases that store is actually not
trusted because you're pulling this out
of the network
so you can't just like accept a hash
that is not there because people can put
whatever random junk so yeah so like we
just have a slightly less efficient way
of everyone in the data but it seems
like a good trade-off to me anyway so
this is a I've been lurking and watching
the livestream but I have a question so
I hope that back a while ago there's
actually this concept of adding
functions to IP LD and certainly
inherently insecure but these these seem
to be pretty simple functions like
dropping out the hash in the middle of
the transaction or just a certain number
of bytes in the middle of the
transaction so it's a pretty totally
straightforward function call that
actually could be a link in the CID and
there's some things you payload and not
I'm sorry not in the CID but the node
maybe you still have the problem of like
I want to get this by that hash and then
I asked for it from somebody else and
I'm just dropping data that's in there
so they could give me like not the
actual block join sigrid data but they
could give me any like whatever the hell
whereas like in the Bitcoin blockchain
when they pull this block they just know
this is a special block that has to get
validated with two different they didn't
keep by two different actions yeah there
should clarify something additionally
here which is even if we like someone
once a transaction and we only succeeded
into the IPAs Network and they have a
transaction ID they can look it up but
they're only going to get that classic
version of it even if it's the same with
transaction what Bitcoin does internally
is when it decodes these things
it attaches the witness data back into
individual transaction components and so
that just fills them out but we would be
hashing them so let's let's say you in
my picture here let's say to the TX 3
let's say had the hash that you looked
at our you follow that medical treatment
I mean you wouldn't follow milk until
you just get fetch it out as it is but
without a way to navigate back up to the
block
you can't navigate back down to find the
witness data because you have to
navigate down to transaction the first
transaction and these transactions don't
they don't link to each other they only
link through the route so you still
can't get to the witness data if you had
a transaction ID and you showed up with
that querying out the IPF it's Network
for that transaction ID you'd say yeah
he's he's this transaction but hey I
don't know whether it's a segment
transaction or not and B I don't know
how to get to the witnessed artery's
likely unless you have to block ID no
[Music]
never mind never months it depends on
how people would want to use this stuff
in it I I would assume that if you're
pulling this stuff and you'd be doing it
by block anyway because these blocks are
you try complete things so in pulling
out an individual individual transaction
is kind of interesting and the financial
data is all in there but you just have
to accept that if you're pulling it out
transactions individual transactions
from IPL D data you may or may not get
what you're looking for I think also
like there there's a hard
differentiation here between like what
bitcoin needs to do and what like people
using Bitcoin data need to do which is
what I assume people were using when
today and I feel like they actually do
want to look at this like a data
structure like you're talking about and
are like slightly less interested in you
know pouring out one of these
transactions without the rest that
context so I think the like the the
ground that we found here is actually
like a pretty good middle ground of edom
and kind of makes sense to me
like this seems to provide a useful
structure for working with this data
that I think natively it doesn't provide
all that well unless all you're trying
to do is actually do transactions in
Bitcoin
so my next steps with this I've got turn
the dice X this stuff but it's not
complete yet in terms of IP LD what I
want to do is be able to actually spit
out I building blocks and see how many
there are for an average modern
transaction and then be able to walk
back through the blockchain and make
sure they verify that I'm actually I am
accounting for every byte of it of all
the blocks that's the biggest issue so
that I can then take those IP LD
versions and then reconstruct the block
in exactly the same form won't be able
to do that so that then I can prove that
ok we can do I appeal the application
but it goes two ways and then that would
also tell me what sort of size overhead
we have which would be a very
interesting thing to know but anyway the
summer in the takeaway is this things
become really complicated because they
wanted to do they wanted to make it soft
for compatible so they had to overload
the coinbase transaction then do this
crazy second local so this might be
included in your thinking already but I
think a bunch of this isn't as bad as it
seems as long as we set up some
vocabulary and some mental space for
like there's a difference between a link
that we want for a logical purpose and
the way that the storage is physically
laid out which we tend to think of an IP
LD as being tightly coupled but like it
doesn't really have to be and what you
would query if you're doing if you don't
have a data and you want to get it what
you need to know and we also tend to
view that as being strongly related to
the link in the hash
self and I appeal deep but again it
doesn't have to be per se and so if
we're okay with those three things
drifting further apart then all this is
sort of fine yeah the thing that I was
trying to think about earlier was this
is sort of similar but but a lot more
complicated to the problem of
representing a link to a path within a
block rather than just a link to a block
yeah we know that at some point we will
need to do that and we wanted to kind of
create that type and this is it's
similar it's just like significantly
more complicated because it's like a
link to slices of the block of the
binary in the block which is like a
little visit but like I don't know maybe
there were there's some kind of layout
that you can do to actually just break
that up into individual blocks that's so
much texture oh that's terrible
yeah I think it is sufficiently more
complicated at that same solution won't
work but but conceptually I think that
they occupy some more space it's
possible that some of the complexities
and the Linkletter functions and a go
code base that you all have asked why
those are there it's possible that those
might actually help here and might be
worth thinking about
for example the there's this whole sort
of complexities around so you've got a
link loader function and one of its
parameters is the hash yes and then it
takes us so they're little tuple of
parameters called the link context I
don't got all this info about like the
sibling node in case you need to go look
up something over there or in the path
you took to get here and it's possible
something like that could be useful here
as well because one of the things I was
originally visualizing with that whole
link context scenario is oh if I have
some type information and I want to use
that to infer that I have this different
sharding of my physical storage on disk
based on application logic you know
these are things that you have to write
some glue code around but you could do
it and maybe a similar thing would
actually work well here you would be
like oh I have this kind of Bitcoin
transaction I know when somebody asks
for the link and it's in this set of
fields
then that semantically gives me the
information that this is the guts of
this segwayed thing and I'm going to
look up storage using a totally
different func of logic none of this is
pretty but yeah the fact that we wanting
to be able to make their transaction IDs
and block IDs useful puts a lot of
constraints on how we can lay these
things out to be useful but we haven't
we hope that we have got a lot of power
with the way we can navigate through
blocks and nodes within blocks like if
you have a block ID then you can build a
selector when we get to everything
really nicely but the transaction ID
problem is so if you were if we built
like if we extended I peeled the
Explorer for instance to on the web to
be able to understand Bitcoin blocks we
can actually make it it's something that
was close to all these various
blockchain Explorer websites out there
we put in a block by doing it again
always information about we could do
that if we have all my stuff in the
network but you couldn't do it for
transaction IDs
you could only get basic financial data
for link and there wouldn't be a way to
embed a navigation back up to the block
from the transaction ID unless you also
have a meta data look at system which is
not which is not how I feel T's works
like we don't we don't reverse back up a
tree don't do that anyway and the
takeaway is that I can account for all
the bytes and turning it ideally it's
just not pretty
and I think I think this will extend to
other blockchain as well that have all
the block chains that are based on
Bitcoin they have they all have similar
challenges but then you know this whole
ecosystem thinks about content
addressing in this very heavily
localized way and we we witnessed a lot
of that with aetherium recently when we
had a discussion with them this sort of
obsessive localization down to the bit
level was very interesting our first
time extending to an hour and we went
over our time of course of course
we started a bit late oh okay well
anything anything else from anybody else
who's been on the call and I know some
extra places so I just wanted to bring
up that we didn't really explore like a
road did mention it adding hash
functions that are not really hash
functions but we didn't really delve
into that if we add something to the
multi hash table does this mean that any
like go CID library or anything like
that or a CID will have to be able to
implement and you know and understand
every single CID and verify everything
no and we need we need to do a better
job of calling this out because the way
that we've implemented a lot of these
libraries so far is gonna have to change
and we need to make sure that we're not
holding things up in multi format based
on these so implementation should not
assume that they have the entire multi
connect table or that they can support
everything or even anything it's I'm
gonna what to put a table like you only
know the parts of the multi color table
that you support ideally and we got a
move away from shipping around support
for everything ever like that's not
gonna scale we already have bundle
issues in JavaScript and a lot of our
code
cookies are like way unnecessarily large
because we're pulling in every Quebec
ever and every hashing function other so
yeah I know things are gonna go on the
table that not a lot of people support
and that's okay yeah that answers a
question that's discrete yeah the
problem is the currently multi hash is
described as supporting well established
hash functions that's what we that text
is mutable we write new texts to define
that I think like at the end of all of
this once you turn it short up the file
coined multi-format steps need to go
back to the governance and just docs in
general around multi formats and change
out some of this language to be a little
bit clearer because I think that a
couple people have had really consistent
ideas in their head about what these
things should do but we have not done a
great job just really communicating it
so we need to like really sit down and
read it write it down in a consistent I
will say that I have more consistently
encountered the idea that Merkle trees
should be treated as where the
individual nodes are individuals with
their own C IDs that's been a more
consistent thing I've encountered across
people who have done work in this area
and particularly protocol those people
and then the idea that the whole Milton
tree should be a hash function that we
can bring multi hash to address the base
data that's just yeah what I was going
to say datasource of the temperature of
like we are ratifying some of this
portion of this table with the ITF you
know what exactly are we referring them
um so we do need to make sure the
language any language changes make it in
there but for the most part the table is
not going to the IETF the table would go
into anion or registry and it remains
mutable over time so we can continue to
add thanks to it there's no ticking
clock on like getting stuff in now or
later on that I don't like well
established yeah
which part
basically is like are we just saying
that this is a table of IDs and anything
else is kinda you know subject to change
a little bit or it's more than just IDs
because right now if you look at the
repository is definitely more day and
then the ideas then it's like these plus
stuff but the IITs submissions of splits
are multi hash into a separate thing and
then since this is multi ocean this is
multi codec but we use the same table I
think for both of them yeah yeah it's
all in one table so I think the table is
just defined as like you know the
identify like this is just numbers to
identify is basically oh and multi nice
if you spin the multi-vise oh yeah cuz
multi base isn't actually in the table
that's it okay cool I think we're good
stop the stream that's my job okay bye